# Database for Discbro
Here is the docuemntation for the database. This file explains how it is set up, how it is used and why the desiscions that were made, were made.

## Tables
### Users
The "users" table contains 4 datapoints:
- id: A uniqe id for each user.
This id is used to refer to the user in the server. For example: if the user adds another user as a friend, and both accept, it is stored in
the "friends" table as (id, user1, user2), where user1 and user2 are user id's. This number starts at 10000 and counts up.

- username: The username of this account. Displayed as "@username", is can only contain lowercase letters a - z, numbers 0 - 9, dashes (-) and underscores (_).
The username has to be atleast 4 characters long and cannot be more than 32 characters long.
The username can NOT change. This is mainly used by the users to locate their friends on the app and add them as friends.
For this purpouse the regular expression ^[a-z0-9-_]+$ is used, if no match is found the username is invalid.

- displayname: The name displayed in most areas of the app, for this account. This dispayname can contain any letter / character the user wishes to use.
This is mainly costemtic, but also what will be seen most places in the app.

- password: This contains the hash generated by the users password, A.K.A their password. 60 characters long, since bcrypt's hashes are 60 characters long.
When the user is created, the password is converted to a hash with 10 salt rounds. After the user is created, the password is discarded and whenever the user tries to log in, the password in the request is compared to the hash.

It also contains data the user can change while using the app. There is a status field, which lets other users know if this user is avaliable to chat or not,
along with a status_text field which lets the user put in any text they want, shown when online. Lastly, there is also a bio field, which is a description alwyas shown on the profile.

You can find the SQL used to create the databses in "/documentation/database.sql".